So we talked about index.
We talked about this okay,
sometimes your Postgres planner
will choose not to use an index.
We talked about a little bit about unique.
So by if you set unique on a,
some sort of row column in your database.
So that actually ends up
being by necessity an index.
So let's go look at I
have a good example here.
So if I was creating this
American addresses, table,
it have its own ID, this primary
key would be the ID for right so
this would have its own index
because it's the primary key.
And then I would have street address,
city and state.
If I'm having some sort of database,
or sorry,
some sort of table street addresses I
want that to be unique right I don't want
to have two entries of a personal
lives on 1,2.3 Main Street, right.
Because I'm pretty sure there's a 1, 2,
3 Main Street and literally every city in
America, so I can't have street
address by itself Be a unique index.
It probably can't even be for
the city, right?
Because it could be in different
parts of the city or, sorry,
there could be Springfield in Illinois and
Springfield in another state, right?
So you can't do just street, address, and
city, you have to do its street address,
city, and state what you can do with
this unique constraint here, right?
And this will actually create an index for
you.
So when you start searching for
addresses by complete with street,
city, and state,
you'll actually be using an index.
So that unique constraint
can be useful for
more than just keeping things
unique in your tables.
It can also be really useful for lookups
it also helps for insertion performance.
Because if you had a unique
constraint without an index,
every time that you inserted
something into or Table.
It would have to look at literally every
row in the other table to make sure that
it was unique.
That's too slow.
That's why it creates an index for you.
>> Sorry, maybe I missed this, but
does that create a new column?
>> No.
No, okay.
This does not create a new column it just
creates a constraint
going back to my query
that I have been writing let's do x, okay?
This one.
Let's say it's absolutely critical for
me that I need to be able
to query by movie name.
if I'm writing a movie searching
application that seems very reasonable
that I would search by name.
So, let's create an index on it.
Because 5060 pretty expensive for
something I'm going to be doing a lot,
like some sort of code hot path.
So I'm gonna say create index.
Call whatever you want index name,
that's a pretty common one to call it.
ON movies, the name of the table.
Name, the name of thing
that you're indexing on.
178,000 rows is actually not that much
Postgres can deal with billions of rows.
That's why this is still really fast.
Now if I run this again,
I went from 5060 to 1230 a little
bit of a performance increase, right?
You see that I went from a sequential
scan to a bitmap heap scan,
which is another kind of index scan.
In fact,
you see right there a bitmap index scan.
The reason why it's not quite an index
scan is because there still could be
multiple Tron legacies,
which is true, right?
This took 27 milliseconds this took well,
you can have to look at
these combined together.
So this took 27.5,
this took almost two milliseconds.
So, over a 10x speed up,
it's kind of wild right that it
was that simple for us to do that.
So are you well placed in a well
created index makes a huge amount of
difference is just really
hard to pick the right one.
[LAUGH] That when you get it,
it's so sweet.
I'm showing very simple examples.
It's on purpose cuz one, I have
a really hard time myself identifying
the correct ones, and
normally you would have.
If you're doing something like I
showed you that really long query,
I usually have to go find someone
that's really advanced in databases.
They're usually not even an engineer,
they're usually some sort
of operations person.
Or like a consultant that actually works
for Oracle or something like that.
It's a whole separate pool of talent
to have of choosing the right index.
>> Can you just do delete index as well?
>> I think it's drop,
>> Drop, okay.
Yep.
Okay, so closing that loop
on that I've created maybe
like three indexes at professionally
at my day job, in my entire career.
It's almost always been an operations
person that's gone in and
like actually done the identifying
the slow queries, finding the index,
working with engineering to get
that setup, all that kind of part.
It's normally a team effort, not just
some Cavalier engineer saying like,
I'm gonna write some indexes today and
speed up the application.
It's normally that not that easy.
We are gonna do some more interesting
indexes here in just a second.
Specifically, we're gonna do some,
we're gonna use views together with
indexes to make some really
huge performance benefits.
But I wanted to talk to you a little bit
about what kind of other indexes you
can have.
I showed you B tree that's the default
one makes sense for looking for
exact matches on things, right?
Or doing ordering and
those kinds of things,
right?There are a few more to talk about.
We're about to talk about gin indexes.
So I'll leave that for
us to talk about gin indexes.
There's hash indexes that's
really useful if you're
doing strict to quality checks for
things and you need it fast and in memory.
But it cannot handle anything
other than does this equal this,
whereas like a B tree can order things,
right?
Can you, hey,
use the B tree index to sort this for me.
It does that really fast too.
We did that already,
just to show you explain, analyze.
Order by name limit 10 so again,
notice this used index scan so
it's using the tree to order by.
We got that for
free because it comes with B tree.
The other cool thing is you're not
limited to ascending descending.
It actually is really you can
see it says index scan backwards
it's actually able to use
indexes backwards as well.
That was not always the case.
You can actually tell it to index
things backwards if you're going to be
doing descending because obviously it's
a little it's actually literally the same.
So in this case,
it doesn't even matter but
you can actually tell it
to index it backwards.
But apparently in this case it
would have made zero difference.
They allow you to do it so
maybe it's useful, I don't know.
Just can use for full text searches but
it ends up with some false positive
sometimes so frequently Jen is preferred
once we're getting into these ones
these are ones I've never used before.
So I actually I'm just telling you for
the sake of completion or but
I haven't used them.
There's SP-GIST,
which is more special use case.
This is more useful for clustering
things and like nearest neighbor.
You can actually use postgres to say,
like, here's three different zip codes,
give me the three nearest
neighbors to those, right?
I've never used it like that.
And then BRIN I have used the BRIN before.
This is for extremely large tables.
You use BRIN for when you're,
you can't actually fit a B tree index.
It's because it would be too big you have
BRIN which is a little bit more compact
but a little less powerful.
So a left a little link here for you if
you want to go to check those out and
read more in depth in them
than I've talked about.
But just know B tree almost always,
hash sometimes,
change somewhat frequently and
we'll talk about change here in a second.
Everything else is wild west to me.